---
categories: 
  - question
tags: 
  - question
published: true
title: Women
lang: en
---

* **New Coverage Options:** In the Marketplace, insurance companies won't be able to deny coverage to women due to [pre-existing conditions](/what-if-i-have-a-pre-existing-health-condition), like cancer or being pregnant.
* **Choose your doctor:** In the Marketplace, you can [choose from any primary care provider](/can-i-keep-my-own-doctor), OB-GYN, or pediatrician in your health plan's network without a referral.
* **Save money:** You may qualify for [lower costs on your monthly premiums](/will-i-qualify-to-save-on-monthly-premiums) or [out-of-pocket costs](/will-i-qualify-to-save-on-out-of-pocket-costs) for private insurance. 

* **Women can't be charged more for health coverage than men.** The Marketplace will also let you know if you qualify for coverage under [Medicaid](/do-i-qualify-for-medicaid) or the [Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP)](/are-my-children-eligible-for-chip). 

* **Get more preventive care, for less:** Many insurance companies are now required to cover [preventive care](/what-are-my-preventive-care-benefits) for free. This includes 22 covered [preventive benefits for women](/what-are-my-preventive-care-benefits/#part=2) like mammograms, well-woman visits, contraception, and more.

* **4 Things to Know for Pregnant Women**

1. Starting in 2014, health plans can't refuse you coverage or charge you more because you're pregnant.
2. Health plans must also cover free preventive care like gestational diabetes screening and breastfeeding support for women and well-baby visits and vaccines for children.
3. [Essential health benefits](/glossary/essential-health-benefits "glossary") such as pregnancy and newborn care, along with vision and dental care for children, will be covered.
4. Visit [InsureKidsNow.gov](http://www.insurekidsnow.gov) to learn more about coverage for pregnant women through [Medicaid](/do-i-qualify-for-medicaid) and the [Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP)](/are-my-children-eligible-for-chip).

* **Get the latest information:** Visit the [Individuals & Families](/families) page and sign up for email updates.
